Okay, so this is one item, now we need for
the NavBar all the items, okay?
So, let's do that.
So, I'm going to create a preview,
composable, I'm going to call that NavBar.
And for that, well,
I'm going to use a row, y row.
Because, I want them horizontally, okay?
So, it's a row.
Inside the row, I'm going to use a for.
Can I do a for?
Yeah, okay.
For each page in Routes.pages,
and what is that?
The array, the list I created before.
So, I'm going to loop through all these
pages that each has something that I have
just created.
And I'm going to render
one nav item per page.
Does it makes sense?
So, here I'm going to
render one NavBar item.
Which page?
The current page, okay?
I will need the argument name,
if it's the same,
maybe it's up to you,
if you want to keep it, it's fine.
It's not a problem and
then if it's selected or not.
So, I can just say, well let's not add the
selected for now, we can add that later.
So, we have NavBar right down,
and I think for
now should be good enough to render bar.
Look at that at the bottom,
it seems fine, right?
So, I'm just looping through and
rendering these items.
But I need to behavior as well.
So, I need to click on each item and
somehow change content.
We don't have any automatic
behavior on checkbox on both.
So, we need to do this manually,
but it's not so complicated.
So, one simple way is that
maybe we can receive here,
what is the selected route,
but it's just a string.
And we can save that by default,
we start with a menu page.
Okay?
So, with that in mind, I can say selected,
anyway selected is a Boolean number
we're seeing here is equals to,
if the route is equals to the current
route that I'm actually rendering.
So, let me do things like like this.
So, I'm rendering each item and
I'm verifying if the current
one is the selected one, and
we're going to receive that
from the outside, okay?
Make sense?
Now the preview is broken again.
Why?
Because I need to pass arguments.
Okay.
So, it may have problems later.
But remember that we can create our own
composable shots for preview, okay?
So, now that I'm here, what's next?
I need to click on items.
So how does that work?
We can apply a modifier, this is the first
time we are doing a click, okay?
So, it's through modifiers and
the modifier is known as clickable.
Is not on click is not using
the on prefix, clickable.
And here we do something
What do I need to do?
If you click here.
>> As a function?
>> Yeah, so first I need to change
the section that's kind of the deal.
But if we are receiving the route
from the outside selected route,
it feels like the source of truth for
the carbon route is not here,
it's not in a number.
It's somewhere top in the composition,
maybe in the app,
the app knows where you are.
So, in that case, as you mentioned,
we might wanna receive
a callback function, okay?
So, how would you create a callback
if just lambda expression.
On change, changeable q1.
And what's the type?
It's a function that receives what?
A route, maybe.
[INAUDIBLE] That's the name of our and
returns nothing.
Does anyone remember the boys
type in Kotlin for Android?
Unit.
>> Unit yeah.
>> Unit, so meaning that if it's
clickable I'm going to call on change
passing as an argument that
the current route somehow, okay?
For example,
I can only pass a string maybe it's faster
instead of passing the whole page,
shorter route.
I think that will be faster.
So, now the preview is broken,
which is expectable, okay?
At this point.
Why?
Because it needs unknown change.
It seems complicated, okay?
Which is okay.
You can delete the preview if you want.
If you're happy with that, you can just
delete the preview of the NavBar and
just keep the preview
that you want a preview.
You don't need to preview everything.
You're not forced mentally
to preview anything, okay?
Or all the things that you have,
pick your home previews.
Okay.
So, any question?
You might have right now?
No?
The next part is to actually go to
the app and apply that to the bottom bar.
So to the bottom bar, I don't want text.
I want to apply the navbar
that I have just created and
I need to pass something
in the unchanged event.
And that's the closure,
a lambda expression.
Makes sense?
So, when the NavBar changes we're
going to receive here in it.
What's it?
The route that the user is clicking on it,
okay?
So, now here comes the part when we
need to set the state of the app.
So, the current selected items,
selected tab, selected page,
call it however you want.
It's actually in a state of the app
because it's changing and I need to
re-render the content every time the user
is changing the current selection.
Does it make sense?
So that means that I need
a variable of type of state.
So, it's the current you can
call it however you want,
the current index, current element,
current page, current route,
selected route, something like that.
And we need to call,
remember it's always the same,
we're going to remember
a mutable state of a string.
And we are going to start with,
for example, the menu.
Now it was routes.menuPage.route.
So we start with that one.
That's the initial state.
And when it's changing,
it's actually changing.
So, like the route, the new value is it.
If you don't like it remember we
can change that like the new route.
We can call it new route.
Does it make more sense
with new route than it?
So, we are changing the state.
What I'm missing here is that NavBar
receives an option I'll select the route.
That is the value that I'm just mutating.
This is called state hosting.
A state hosting is when you have a
composable that receives one variable and
since also the value change
through a lambda expression.
This is called a state hosting.
We're saving the state,
not here in the number, but one level up.
This is state hoisting.
In fact, the text field is
actually using this technique.
When we're setting the text field
we also have the same idea.
So, let's see what happens.
First, I can try to see
what's going on here.
Well, if you look at the bottom,
we have something there,
it's still a little weird, okay?
So, you can see there in terms of
the background, and all that thing.
So, let's run this on a real phone.
Look at the bottom.
Yes, kind of, we need to add some more
things but it has to do with the UI.
what do we need, to do two things.
First, change the background color and
also maybe stretch that
number to the whole width.
So where?
In the NavBar.
Make sense?
So, in the NavBar in this row,
I'm going to apply some modifiers.
So modifier equals to, for example
changing the background color to primary.
We can take it from the material theme,
the primary is actually the one
that defines also the top bar
Colors primary.
That's one modifier.
And the other one it's fillMaxWidth.
Because I want the whole row to take
the whole width that we're having in
the space.
>> The images won't get stretched now.
>> Sorry, what?
>> The images won't get stretched
>> If it's an image,
you can change the aspect
ratio that you wanna use.
If you remember we did that on,
offers page.
When we were putting an image here,
we change the content scale.
So, here you can change,
how do you want that image to be stretch.
If fill or crop, okay?
So, you just change this property with all
the enum values that you have available.
>> Okay,
do you have padding in between them and
just do we have padding to
be able to be stretched?.
>> You have padding in everything.
[FOREIGN]
>> So any mesh is a composable.
>> So forget about the emesh as the file.
It's a composable that renders
on the machine side, okay?
Makes sense?
Cool.
Well let's see,
if I run this now look at the bottom.
We're still missing some parts, right?
So, what do we need,
I mean it's better than before, but
it's still not what I was expecting, okay?
So, I need more paddings and
also it's not actually stretching.
So, we need to find which
one are we missing.
Let's see.
So, let's go to bottom navigation,
like here, let me go to code only.
So, this is a row.
Okay, the row is filling the max width,
but we might have a problem here.
So, it's okay.
We are filling the max width, but
the row is just putting all
the elements one after the other.
It's not aligning
the elements along the row.
Does it make sense?
So we need to change more properties.
One of the properties that
we can change is horizontal.
So there are many properties.
Okay, that [INAUDIBLE].
Unfortunately, sometimes the IDE is
not showing you all the properties.
And when you look at the autocomplete,
sometimes it's giving you even more
properties that the ones that you can use.
And if you pick one of these, these
are not actually from Jetpack compose.
So, be careful because not everything
that appears here is what you want.
You can also get into the row and
try to see there there, for example,
we have a horizontal arrangement.
Remember you enter with ctrl click.
And you get into that function and
you see the properties,
in case the IV is not helping.
So and in this case,
arrangement can be, for example,
in space around the space
even in space between.
And if we do this,
we're missing the parenthesis?
Now, I'm asking the row to actually
put the spaces between elements so
they can fit on the screen.
And also between we can use a space around
that also add spaces at both pages, okay?
And also in the middle.
So, you can play with this value.
And just because I'm here maybe
I want the padding as well for
the whole row that renders the icons,
okay?
And it's like what's going on,
how to solve the problem?
So what's the problem we have?
>> On the bottom padding.
[LAUGH]
>> Well, the padding, should be moved up.
>> The padding should we moved up or
the background or down?
So, I'm applying the padding and
then the background color.
But if I swap the order,
background first, padding later.
Okay, it looks better.
We're still happy with the selection.
But it seems like I'm not seeing any
different background color, okay?
That's what I'm saying.
But the rest looks fine.
Wanna change the route value,
look the route,
everything seems perfectly fine.
So, we'll go with a clean
RStudio wants to update,
I don't wanna update.
So, I push the codes on GitHub,
you have my latest code.
Let's run it to see if my
NavBar is actually interactive.
So you can see it's working.
Maybe I wanna swap the colors.
I don't think I like how they
colors looks like right now.
So, for that,
let's go to bottom navigation Kotlin.
And here, when we are saying in
the NavBar item, if selected,
I'm going to swap this color.
Of course, you can play with
these colors as much as you like.
We have one primary and alternative one.
So if I run this again,
now it looks better.
So, the next step is to actually
change the main contents based on
the current tab,
the current selected item.
For that, we're going
to do that something in app.
Right now the content in app is
actually always offers pages.
So, the app now has to select a route.
So, what if we apply here when,
do you remember the when?
The when is like the switch.
So, I'm going to say when, the select
the route value is, for example, offers or
I can take it from
the routes.OffersPage.route.
I'm going to render offers page.
So we use arrow.
And what do we wanna render, like this.